+++ 
title = "My Year in Review, 2019" 
date = 2019-12-11T02:29:15-05:00 
draft = false 
tags = ["personal","hobbies"] 
categories = ["personal"] 
description = "This is my own year-in-review. What started as a dumb tweet has become a blog post because I'm between jobs. Enjoy!"
+++

This is my own year-in-review. What started as a dumb tweet has become a blog post because I'm between jobs. Enjoy!

{{< tweet user="MeganRisdal" id="1204635323474432003" >}}

## Top film

### Society (1989)

My husband had described _Society_ (dir, Brian Yuzna) to me a few years ago and I don't think I really absorbed much because it didn't seem believable or something. It's pretty trippy! Here's the snippet from Wikipedia:

> _A Beverly Hills teen (Billy Warlock) discovers his parents are part of a gruesome orgy cult for the social elite._

As a big fan of body horror, though, I knew I had to see it at some point This year (probably during _Beyond Fest_) we had the fortune of seeing it at _The Egyptian Theater_ in Hollywood. It's great. Wicked! Believe it.

{{< youtube inrBU8juGI8 >}}

I only recently started using [Letterboxd](https://letterboxd.com/mrisdal/films/diary/) again to track my films, but some other good ones from this year:

* _Greener Grass_ (2019) - David Lynch plus SNL. Yes? Yes.
* _Knives Out_ (2019) - Just a lot of fun!

## Top record

### In the Court of the Crimson King, 50th anniversary - King Crimson (2019)

I had a friend in college who was obsessed with _King Crimson_. I didn't get much into them myself at the time, but they were an [influence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_Crimson#Influence) on basically everything else I listen to. _Porcupine Tree_ / _Steven Wilson_, _The Mars Volta_, _Opeth_, _Between the Buried and Me_, _Mastodon_, _Oranssi Pazuzu_, etc. etc. etc. You get it. Oh, and one of the
 three (3) drummers in their current line-up is Gavin Harrison, drummer for _Porcupine Tree_ (since broken-up).

So, when _King Crimson_ were on their 50th anniversary tour and making a stop at _The Greek Theater_ in Los Angeles, of course I had to go out of reverence. Wow. I was totally and completely blown away. Despite the tourist next to me using his phone / camera (a BIG no-no for Robert Fripp). Perhaps life-changing in that I've been obsessively listening to _KC_ ever since.

Anyway, my favorite album is the 50th anniversary remix of _In the Court of the Crimson King_. The remix is done by Steven Wilson (of course). And _Epitaph_ is still (sadly) the best song for these times.

> Knowledge is a deadly friend

> If no one sets the rules

> The fate of all mankind, I see

> Is in the hands of fools

It's not from this album of course, but here's _Starless_ live. 

{{< youtube FhKJgqxNDD8 >}}

Other music I listened to a lot of:

* _Agalloch_ - I discovered them this year ... so GOOD.
* _The Aristocrats_ - Guthrie Govan is amazing.
* _Deafheaven_ - So different, but gorgeous warm black metal feels.

## Top song

### Sandwich, Marco Minnemann (2016)

This song is just fun. Any time it pops into my head (which to the dismay of my husband is probably too often) I have to play it. Marco Minnemann is a great drummer. Maybe you've heard of him. He's associated with _Steven Wilson's band_ (not anymore, but it's how I came to know him), _Necrophagist_, _The Aristocrats_, and he auditioned for _Dream Theater_.

Check out the music video for _Sandwich_. _Don't you know how to eat a sandwich?_

{{< youtube wNjrj3BFlXc >}}

Other top songs:

* _Epitaph, King Crimson_ - Already mentioned but bears rementioning.
* _Black Lake Niðstång, Agalloch_ - It's worth 17 minutes. Some of the most soulful black metal screaming of life (death?).

## Book

### Our Mathematical Universe, Max Tegmark (2014)

A couple of years ago I caved and started listening to audiobooks. This plus a pair of bluetooth headphones I like (Jabra Elite 65t) has led to a big increase in the number of books I manage to "read" each year. It definitely makes up for the guilty feelings I harbor for not being a legitimate book snob. Just kidding. I don't care.

So this year my favorite book is [_Our Mathematical Universe_ by Max Tegmark](https://www.amazon.com/Our-Mathematical-Universe-Ultimate-Reality/dp/0307599809). I'm a pretty big pop astronomy / physics nerd, and this book is so out there it blew my mind. In so many ways. What do "real" physicists think of this book?! If you're into multiverses, reality, consciousness, and wild speculation, check it out. If you want just a taste, Max Tegmark made a recent appearance on Sean Carroll's podcast, [_Mindscape_](https://www.preposterousuniverse.com/podcast/), in [Episode #75](https://www.preposterousuniverse.com/podcast/2019/12/02/75-max-tegmark-on-reality-simulation-and-the-multiverse/).

<iframe src="https://art19.com/shows/sean-carrolls-mindscape/episodes/f48de2b5-e16e-4d09-bc56-a34fb5fcecd3/embed?theme=dark-blue" style="width: 100%; height: 200px; border: 0 none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Apart from physics, I really love a good corporate scandal novel (yes, _Bad Blood_, yes, _Super Pumped_), so next year I expect my favorite book will be about WeWork (fingers crossed).


## Game

### Untitled Goose (2019)

What more do I need to say?! _Untitled Goose_ was a lot of fun. I had a hard time picking between this and _Katamari Reroll_. Delightfulness and ease-of-play were the things that tipped things in favor of the goose for me.

{{< youtube 9STHqt_vsCc >}}

Some other games worth mentioning:

* _Skyrim_ - Whenever I get a new gaming system I buy _Skyrim_. I will never not play this game.
* _Super Smash Bros Ultimate_ - This was a lot of fun to play with my husband's son (11yo).
* _Pokemon Sword_ - I just started playing this! It's a lot of fun.

## Podcast

### Stuff You Should Know (2008-2019)

Prior to this year I hadn't listened to a ton of podcasts since college. What changed? Not sure, but _Stuff You Should Know_ is now a staple for me. My husband don't have overlapping tastes really except we can both get into a random _SYSK_ episode about jellyfish on our way to _The Dynasty Typewriter_ to see _Harmontown_ (a podcast I don't listen to that we would go see live). We also listened to a bunch of episodes on our mini-roadtrip between LA and Santa Cruz.

{{< youtube fVZyh5W63rM >}}

Here's a couple of other podcasts I got into:

* _Jorge and Daniel Explain the Universe_ - Just fun! Remember, I'm a pop-physics nerd.
* _Radiolab's More Perfect_ - I devoured this in a couple of weeks and I'm sad there aren't new ones.

-- 

## Reply

Follow the conversation and discuss your favs on Twitter.

{{< tweet user="MeganRisdal" id="1204680916162891776" >}}